---
layout: post
title:  My first Interview experience (RedHat)
tags:
- Interview
- RedHat
- QE
- Post
---

<p align="justify">During May-June 2016, I was randomly searching for Opensource projects so that I could get involved with one of them. This search led me to some projects on GitHub but frankly I was a bit skeptical about how I could get associated at that point. After a few days, I randomly stumbled upon this entry level position at RedHat, Pune under Quality Engineering (QE) and applied for it on June 4th. I also applied under Software Maintenance Engineering (SME) and Predictive Analysis (PA) at RedHat, Pune. I sent the applications out of the blue at their <a href="http://redhat.jobs/" target="_blank">site</a>.
I did not send to other companies due to lack of interest. Why RedHat then huh? it's because, throughout my search for projects in the Opensource domain, there was one name that was almost everywhere and it was RedHat. RedHat is one of the largest companies contributing actively to Opensource projects like Fedora, OpenStack, OpenShift to name a few. I also did a bit more research and found out some interesting facts which further encouraged me to apply to them. RedHat is one of the top 10 preferred software companies to work for as per <a href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/louiscolumbus/2015/06/15/the-best-software-companies-to-work-for-in-2015/" target="_blank">Forbes</a> in 2015. The company strength~8000 is not so huge nor too small. I felt that it is was a very good equilibrium such that you get to contribute at a relatively higher level in the company and get your voice heard effectively. I also saw someone saying that working in RedHat is quite different compared to any other big MNC or any start-up, it's more like putting ourselves in the middle of 100 start-ups, which I found quite fascinating.</p> 

<p align="justify">On June 15th, I received a mail from <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/soni-lonari-97096751" target="_blank">Soni Lonari</a> informing me that I was shortlisted for the SME position but I did not receive any reply to the couple of reverts I sent to that mail. After two days I tried calling RedHat, Pune office using the number I got from their website. I called them like 2-3 times, and a woman picked up the call everytime. She told me that she worked as a security there and was unaware of anything. She could hardly communicate in English and I was not strong in Hindi to make it worse. Nevertheless, somehow managed to convey the message so that it could be informed to Soni. Being a highly reputed company RedHat should have employed someone with good communication skills and knows how to divert the calls efficiently to deal with the general contact number. This is what I felt then. I got a call from Soni after a couple of days notifying me about the position and basic requirements but SME changed to QE for some reason. I still have no idea how that happened but she was nice and talked me through most of the things I needed to know. I parallelly got a rejection mail from Predictive Analysis (PA), maybe I was not qualified enough or it might be because I was already shortlisted for QE. To be frank, the name PA interested me more than QE at first. I thought maybe it had to do with some sort of prediction stuff and I could learn to interact with some machine learning concepts. After that, I checked out QE further and I found that to be equally interesting as well. Since I was staying in Trivandrum, Soni had informed me that they would be setting up telephonic/video interview for the application process. All the scheduling of my interviews were handled by
<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/deepti-bisen-kulkarni-29789a25" target="_blank">Deepti Kulkarni</a>. She was very friendly throughout and I noticed that her middle name was different in her Linkedin profile (Bisen) compared to the one from her RedHat mail (Mihir). I was basically jobless then, so upon searching I got to know that 'Bisen' are a powerful and an ancient Rajput clan (Raj Vansha) named after Raja Birsen (hence Bisen) of the Suket Kingdom and have several kingdoms in the northern plains of India. Related? maybe. maybe not. Anyway coming back to my interview, she kept me posted about the application process every week.</p>

<ol>
<li>Round 1 - Telephonic Interview:</li>
<p align="justify">My first Telephonic Interview or as matter of fact, my first ever any sort of Interview was scheduled at 11:00 AM, 27th June by Deepti. The Interview was taken by Satyabrata Maitra (Senior Quality Engineer, RedHat). He called me around the scheduled time. He asked me to give a small intro about myself and then dug right into the technical part. The interview was mainly questions related to why-RedHat, Python, Linux, C++, and PHP. I could feel that he had an excellent knowledge on all the topics he asked, which was pretty obvious though. I did get tensed and froze few times during the whole Interview. I was informed that the interview would take up about 30 mins only but it went on for about 1 hour. He also asked me a question about font differentiation mechanism in editors which seemed a bit overshoot compared to other questions. After the interview, I dug a bit deep on that and I got to know that he had a patent related to what he asked. Damn! that was nice and I thought, I must have made a fool out of myself on that. Overall the Interview went smoothly, I felt that I did enough but then I didn't have any past experience to compare to anyway.</p>

<li>Round 2 - Programming Assignment:</li>
<p align="justify">I got a mail from Soni informing me about the Second round of the Interview on June 4th. Either I must have cleared the first round then, or they might evaluate my profile after all the round? maybe. I have no idea. Anyhow, the second round was to write 3 python programs before June 7th.
<ol>
<li>Write a python CLI program/tool for HTML file manipulation.</li>
<li>Write a program in Python to convert UTF-16 to UTF-8 for values in range of U+0000 to U+07FF.</li>
<li>Write a python program to cater basic web container needs.</li>
</ol>
It took me around 2 days to finish them. Programs were not that difficult. <a href="https://github.com/amalrkrishna/myRedHat" target="_blank">Click here</a> for it's GitHub Repository.</p>
<li>Round 3 - Video-call Interview:</li>
<p align="justify">The thrid round of the Interview was scheduled on 13th July 2016, 12:30 PM by Deepti. This one was a video-call Interview taken by <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/swati-goswami-52aaba31" target="_blank">Swati Goswami</a> (Associate Manager, Quality Engineering). It started at the exact scheduled time. We were joined by another person immediately whose name I forgot now. Lets just say he is Mr. RedHat for the time being. Similar to the previous Interview I was asked to introduce myself. Then she asked me to write the code for Fibonacci series in python, which I did. Swati, as well as Mr. RedHat, asked me about some Linux commands and test cases to most of which I answered. Mr. RedHat also questioned me on QE theory which I had to somehow talk through as I was not theoretically informed well. Then she asked me about why QE and not as a developer. Next, about reallocation to Pune etc. Finally, she asked me if I had any questions for them, to which I asked <i>"how many people are there in QE team and RedHat office altogether?"</i> just to confirm the equilibrium point that I mentioned earlier in this post. There were around 8 people in QE team and 500 in the RedHat, Pune office in 3 floors. The video-call had 3 screens including mine. At that moment I felt that if both of them where there in the same office then, they could have set up the video-call in front of a table together so that it could have been 2 screens altogether. It could have saved some bandwidth from the extra screen and would have helped to achieve a much smoother video-call interview. This must have been the Computer Networks guy in me then. Of course, applicable only if the Interviewers are comfortable with that set-up. I didn't tell them that anyway to avoid any unwanted chaos. Overall I felt the Interview went great, but again what do I know? I should have asked them.</p>
</ol>

<p align="justify">I am yet to hear back from RedHat after the 3rd round of Interview. I will update this post after the Interview decision.

